---
name: openid-connect-sso-authentication
when_to_use: When the user wants to add SSO / "log in with Google" / OpenID Connect (OIDC) authentication to a generated app or full-stack application built on Magic.
---

Magic supports SSO using OIDC. This can be used when generating applications and full-stack apps that require authentication and authorisation. The following endpoints are available:

* HTTP GET `/magic/system/auth/openid-providers?createNonce=true`
* HTTP GET `/magic/system/auth/openid-login`

The first endpoint queries the backend for which OpenID providers have been configured. It returns something such as:

```json
[
  {
    "name": "Google",
    "issuer": "https://accounts.google.com",
    "nonce": "SOME_NONCE_HERE",
    "url": "https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/v2/auth",
    "client_id": "123456789-efqwevdgfh.apps.googleusercontent.com",
    "response_type": "id_token",
    "scope": "openid email profile"
  }
]
```

The `openid-login` endpoint returns a valid JWT token if you pass in a `token` QUERY parameter that should be generated by the OIDC provider. Use this token in consecutive requests towards the backend after the OIDC authentication process is over.

When users log in with OpenID, a new user is automatically created and inserted into the Magic database, belonging to the "guest" role, with the email address as the username. This user *cannot* log in using a password, only the OIDC provider. Otherwise the user becomes a normal Magic user and can have roles assigned, etc.

**NOTICE** - The system only supports Google OIDC out of the box!

The `openid-login` endpoint returns the JWT token as follows:

```json
{
   "ticket":"JWT.TOKEN.HERE",
   "extra": {
      "email":"thomas@ainiro.io",
      "name":"Thomas Hansen"
   }
}
```

In addition, the user needs to edit his configuration at `/configuration` to add the following configuration setting:

```json
{
  "magic": {
    "oidc": {
      "google": {
        "client-id": "1234567890-eo23gyh5ytd467hjgvdd5.apps.googleusercontent.com"
      }
    },
/*... REST OF THE CONFIGURATION FILE HERE ...!!*/
```

Make sure the user understands he will need to get the above `client-id` from the Google Cloud API:

* https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials

Return a Markdown hyperlink to the user informing him he needs to register a Google Cloud API account to create a `client-id`.

Also inform the user that the redirect URL to the frontend must be enabled in the Google Cloud API, and return the redirect URL to the user so they can copy it and paste it into their Google Cloud account.

**NOTICE** - If the user wants only authorized users to access the frontend, make sure the primary GUI is not visible before users have logged in. Create a login form, and display a logout button after login. Store the token in localStorage. HIDE login button/logic after users have logged in!

The frontend flow for authentication is:

1. Hide main app and show login UI
2. User logs in
3. Hide login UI and show app UI
4. User logs out
5. Hide app UI and show login UI

**IMPORTANT** - If the user wants to use Google OIDC, then most endpoints should probably be restricted to the "guest" user by default. This is because the OIDC token exchange creates a new user and adds this user to the "guest" role, allowing him or her to access the endpoints.
